# Broken Access Control

## Learning Objectives
* Understand what broken access control is
* Understand how to prevent broken access control 

## Access Control

Access controls are the measures websites put in place to restrict the data users are allowed to read and write to. For example, in order to change a user’s notification preference on a website, you should first have to login as that user. If you aren’t logged in, or are logged in as a different user, you shouldn’t be able to modify these settings. 

## Broken Access Control

As an example of broken access control, imagine the following. A website might show a user’s settings page under the /users/{userId}/settings path. On the frontend, the site might have a settings button which, when clicked, redirects the user to their own settings page by embedding their User ID in the path. However, a malicious user could simply enter an arbitrary userId into the search bar directly and so access another user’s settings.

```javascript
app.get("/users/:id/settings", async (req, res) => {
    /* 
        Must check the request is coming from the correct user
        and reject if not!
    */
    const user = await getUserData(req.params.id);
    res.render("settings", { user });
});
```

Other examples might include a standard user accessing an admin page, or a website failing to reject requests made by the browser whose session on the site has expired.

## Preventing Broken Access Control

The most important principle for preventing broken access control vulnerabilities is to reject all requests for non-public resources by default. In most cases, it’s better to err on the side of caution and potentially reject legitimate requests rather than accept illegitimate requests. 

## Assignment

## Additional Resources
[OWASP Broken Access Control](https://owasp.org/Top10/A01_2021-Broken_Access_Control/)
