# Identification and Authentication Failures

## Learning Objectives

* Understand what Identification and Authentication Failures are
* Understand how to prevent Identification and Authentication Failures

## Identification and Authentication Failures

Authentication is about confirming the identity of a client. For example, when you log in to an account, you use a username and password to authenticate yourself. 

Examples of where authentication might fail include:

* Systems that allow brute force attacks (e.g. guessing passwords from common-password list).

* Systems that allow weak passwords such as "password1".

* Systems with poorly-implemented credential-recovery systems (e.g. using knowledge-based security questions to recover password).

* Systems which do not hash passwords, or do not hash passwords with a secure algorithm (such as Bcrypt).

* Systems which do not use (or do not properly use) multi-factor authentication.

* Systems which put session identifiers in the URL.

* Systems which reuse session identifiers after a successful login.

* Systems which don't properly invalidate session tokens during logout or a period of inactivity.

## Preventing Authentication Failures

* Implement multi-factor authentication where possible

* Prevent users using weak passwords (e.g. short passwords or those present in databases of common passwords) 

* Limit information provided in failed login attempts (e.g. "your username **or** password is incorrect") to prevent malicious users accumulating information

* Rate-limit login attempts (with increasing delay) to prevent brute forcing

* Log failed login attempts and alert administrators when attempted hacks are suspected

* Use a secure server-side session manager

* (as a user) Use strong and unique passwords for each application you register for. A password-manager is recommended.

## Assignment

Complete the Password Strength challenge on Juice Shop

## Additional Resources

!(https://www.youtube.com/embed/8ZtInClXe1Q)

!(https://www.youtube.com/embed/3NjQ9b3pgIg)