# Application Servers

## Learning Objectives
* Understand the difference between 'static' and 'dynamic' content
* Create dynamic content using the Handlebars templating framework

## Pre-requisites

## Lesson
What makes content static? **Static content** is usually read from disc, it is the <em>same</em> on every request, it is the same for everyone. Examples include, image files, `.mp3` files and HTML files. We have been working with static files so far on our web server.

**Dynamic content** is content that can <em>change</em> from request to request, and might be different for different people. For example, everyone has the same basic Facebook page, but each person's page is filled with content that is particular to them. What is shared between users is the page's template. The content is changeable or dynamic.

So where does the dynamic content come from? Dynamic content is usually stored in a database or comes from another service. The app responds to a request by fetching some specific content for that user/request and parses that content with a template to create the resulting HTML. The page is built per request 'on-the-fly' and is assembled by our app.

If we are serving dynamic content like this our server is now called an **app server**.

### Creating a Route
Our server needs to intercept the HTTP request. It's no good just responding with the content of a static file or template. The way we intercept or 'handle' requests is by declaring a 'route' (also known as a REST API endpoint) in our `server.js` file. Here is an example route which returns the current date when the user navigates to the root URL e.g. http://localhost:3000:

```javascript
app.get('/', (request, response) => {
    const date = new Date()
    response.send(date)})
```
Route definitions appear <u>after</u> setting config with `app.use`, but <u>before</u> the call to `app.listen`. 

Make sure you remove the `public/index.html` fileto avoid it interfering with your `/` route.

### Creating a Template
Our dynamic content is going to be driven by a Restaurant data model. We want to display a list of restaurants within a web page. To do this, we are going to use a templating framework called [Handlebars](https://handlebarsjs.com/). This is a well supported template library in which you write HTML and use placeholders for dynamic content. 

A Handlebars expression is content surrounded by `{{` `}}`. When the template is executed, the expression is replaced with values from an input object. 

Handlebars expects a specific folder structure:
```sh

views
├── restaurants.handlebars
└── layouts
    └── main.handlebars

```
The `views` folder contains Handlebars templates which get rendered into `layouts`. 

A `layout` is an HTML page with a `{{{body}}}` placeholder into which views are rendered. The `layouts` folder typically holds a default `main.handlebars` layout. 

In our Restaurants app we will set the `main.handlebars` layout as follows: 
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css"/>
    </head>
    <body>
        {{{body}}}
    </body>
</html>
```
The `restaurants.handlebars` file will be rendered in the `main.handlebars` layout  and for now, will simply print out the date. 
```html
<h1>Restaurants</h1>
<small>{{date}}</small>
```

### Handlebars installation
To install Handlebars, run `npm install handlebars express-handlebars @handlebars/allow-prototype-access`. Create a file called `server.js` containing the following logic:

```javascript
const express = require('express');
const Handlebars = require('handlebars')
const expressHandlebars = require('express-handlebars')
const {allowInsecurePrototypeAccess} = require('@handlebars/allow-prototype-access')

const app = express();
const port = 3000;

// setup our templating engine
const handlebars = expressHandlebars({
    handlebars: allowInsecurePrototypeAccess(Handlebars)
})
app.engine('handlebars', handlebars)
app.set('view engine', 'handlebars')

// serve static assets from the public/ folder
app.use(express.static('public'));

// this route matches any GET request to the top level URL
app.get('/', (request, response) => {
    response.render('restaurants', {date: new Date()})
})

app.listen(port, () => {
    console.log(`Server listening at http://localhost:${port}`)
})
```

## Assignment
  1. Create a [new Node.js project](/curriculum/Bootcamp/FAQ#createNewProject) for this assignment
  1. Install Handlebars using `npm install handlebars express-handlebars @handlebars/allow-prototype-access`
  1. Create a `server.js` file to serve both static and dynamic content as per the code above. Start your server by navigating to `http://localhost:3000`. You should see the date displayed. Use `Developer Tools` to see the HTTP requests as you refresh the page
  1. Create another route handler on your server, `/about`
  1. Create another template in the `views` folder for your new `/about` page
  1. Add a link from the `restaurants` page to the `about` page
  1. Display your name on the about page
  1. Commit your code into Github and share the link with your coach for review

  ### Assignment extension tasks
  Read the [Handlebars documentation](https://handlebarsjs.com/guide/#what-is-handlebars) to learn more about Handlebars expressions.

  ## Additional resources
   * [Get started with Express Handlebars](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erfN7fH7A6s) 
   * [Create default Layout - Express Handlebars](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yh5qW_L5YNQ)


