# Containerization

The code we write is never destined solely for our laptops. We write software that will run on other machines. Docker gives us a way to package our app, and all its dependencies, into a 'shipping' container that will run on another machine.

## Running containers

```sh
docker run hello-world
```
Once docker is installed in your shell you will have the `docker` command that you can use to build and run containers.

## Building containers

With a `Dockerfile` you can define your own container. You will usually start with a 'base-image' like the Alpine container we have looked at together. You can then declare a series of scripts or commands that will build out your container. We are going to dockerise an app. Use the example below for one of your own projects.

[Download this ruby project](https://github.com/bmordan/noughts-and-crosses/archive/refs/tags/1.1.0.zip)

`cd` into the project folder and create a plain text file called `Dockerfile` with no extension.

```docker
FROM ruby:2.6.0

RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y net-tools
RUN mkdir /app

WORKDIR /app

COPY Gemfile* .
RUN bundle install

COPY ./lib/ .

EXPOSE 4567

CMD ["ruby", "server.rb"]
```
In this file we use a base image called `ruby:2.6.0`. We `RUN` a command that installs a Unix package called 'net-tools'. We then create a new folder called `/app` at the root of the container. We then 'move' ourselves into that `/app` folder. From here we `COPY` from the local file system the `lib` folder into the working directory inside the container which will become `/app/lib`. We then make expose the containers' `PORT` 4567 to the 'host' system. Finally the container has a command that it will run when the container is started, which for us is `ruby server.rb` this will start the ruby web program noughts and crosses.

### Ready to build your container?

`docker build -t noughts-and-crosses .`

This command is invoking `docker` to `build` a container and `-t` tag it with the label `noughts-and-crosses` from the Dockerfile that can be located in the current folder `.` the period or dot means 'here' in the current operating system, your laptop, the 'host'.

### Ready to run your container?

`docker run noughts-and-crosses`

Easy. Now if you visit `http://localhost:4567` you'll...
... not see anything 🙁 yet in your shell you should see the ruby process is running. Noughts and crosses is running, however it is sealed within that container that you just built. We did expose the `PORT` 4567, what we need to do is map that port to the same port on our 'host' computer. Stop the container with control+c.

`docker run -p 4567:4567 noughts-and-crosses`

That should enable us to use that webapp at `http://localhost:4567`. Some other things to experiment with. At the moment when we start a container it takes over our shell. We can run containers in 'detached' mode with the `-d` flag, which means we can still use our shell.

`docker run -d -p 4567:4567 noughts-and-crosses`

If we wanted to see what containers are running we can list them all with the command

```sh
docker ps
```
Can you see the CONTAINER ID? You can use that ID to address it. We can also interact and enter the running containers like we did with the Alpine image. You will have a unique ID so replace `1c784864b06e` with your container ID.
```sh
docker exec -it 1c784864b06e sh
```
Here we invoke `docker` to `exec` execute a command in an `-it` interactive session for container `1c784864b06e` and the command we want to execute is `sh` which will start a shell, and we'll be 'in' the container. Can you find out which flavour of Unix this base-image is built on (_hint_ `uname -all`)?

## Compose containers

You can run a container! Awesome. Now how about running 2, or 3 or 4 containers together. As this gets a bit unwieldy when you're just typing in shell commands, there is another tool called `docker-compose` that lets you define all the config for a set of containers in a file, then you can `docker-compose up` and start all the containers together.

This is great for example when you want to run a database, an API server and maybe a frontend project. We should start with just a pair of containers working together. You should have `docker-compose` installed along with docker for desktop.

Create a `docker-compose.yaml` file and lets define 2 containers.

```yaml
version: "3.9"
    
services:
  db:
    image: mysql:5.7
    restart: always
    environment:
      MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: somewordpress
      MYSQL_DATABASE: wordpress
      MYSQL_USER: wordpress
      MYSQL_PASSWORD: wordpress
    
  wordpress:
    depends_on:
      - db
    image: wordpress:latest
    ports:
      - "8000:80"
    restart: always
    environment:
      WORDPRESS_DB_HOST: db:3306
      WORDPRESS_DB_USER: wordpress
      WORDPRESS_DB_PASSWORD: wordpress
      WORDPRESS_DB_NAME: wordpress
```
In the folder where you created the `docker-compose.yaml` run `docker-compose up`. Oh wow a locally running wordpress `http://localhost:8000` with zero effort, thank you very much that will do nicely. But before you go setting up your wordpress, there is one problem. As soon as the containers stop, the database, and all your wordpress config will disappear. To solve this problem docker will let us create 'volumes' that will persist data between the life cycle of containers coming up and going down. That way we can write data into our SQL database stop the containers, start them again, and retrieve our data. To create a couple of volumes we are going to add the following config to the 'services' object in our `docker-compose.yaml` file (`volumes:` should be at the root of the yaml, same level as version and services, so no spaces).

```yaml
volumes:
  db_data: {}
  wordpress_data: {}
```
Then update the `db:` service to mount this external volume.
```yaml
services:
  db:
    # other properties like image, environment etc
    volumes:
      - db_data:/var/lib/mysql
  wordpress:
    # other properties like image, ports, depends_on etc
    volumes:
      - wordpress_data:/var/www/html
```
Now when we start data will be persisted between container restarts. You can see the volumes docker has created by running the command:
```sh
docker volume ls
```
You can remove one of those volumes with `docker volume rm CONTAINER ID`. Whats really interesting is we can use this same method to 'mount' areas of our local file system into a container. So for example you can create a local folder named `themes` and download a wordpress theme. You can then mount that local folder into the container and use that theme in your wordpress.
```yaml
  wordpress:
    # other properties like image, ports, depends_on etc
    volumes:
      - wordpress_data:/var/www/html
      - ./themes:/var/www/html/wp-content/themes
```

## Assignment

* Can you Dockerise an app?
* Create an account on docker
* push your image to your docker hub (like git for docker images)

If you tag your docker images with your `docker-username/container-label` and then push them you'll see you container online.
```sh
docker push bmordan/some-container
```