# CSS Fonts and Typography

## Learning Objectives

- How CSS fonts work
- Font size, color and style
- How to embed an external font

## Pre-requisites

- A basic understanding of HTML and CSS

## Lesson

### How CSS fonts work

Have you ever been on a website and everything just seemed to _work_, from the layout, the colours, the spacing, to the font? A good font elevates a website, creating a strong brand identity. The font also affects the readibility of a site, so it's a good idea to stick with a tried and tested font for the main body text.

Accessibility has a big role to play here. Have you ever been on a site where the font was too small? Too hard to read? Where the colour against the background made it hard to read? These are common mistakes we should try to avoid.

When working with fonts, there are two key things to be aware of: generic font families and using _web safe_ fonts.

- CSS supports five generic font families including _Serif_ and _Sans serif_
- Web safe fonts are fonts that are available by default on _most_ systems

To that end then, it may not come as a surprise to learn that when specifying your web font, it's a good idea to specify the the font you require and also a _fallback_ family that the browser can use to select a font it supports.

```css
p {
  font-family: "Times New Roman", Times, serif;
}
```

### Font size, color and style

We can apply the measurements that we learnt about in the fundamentals lesson - pixels, ems and rems - in order to size our fonts.

> The default font size of the browser is normally 16px

```css
p {
  font-family: "Times New Roman", Times, serif;
  font-size: 1rem; /* 16px */
}
```

You can also style your font in a number of ways:

<p style="font-style:normal; color: red">This is a red paragraph in normal style.</p>
<p style="font-style:italic">This is a paragraph in italic style.</p>
<p style="font-weight:bold">This is a paragraph with bold weight.</p>
<p style="font-variant:small-caps">This is a paragraph with small caps.</p>
<p style="text-transform:uppercase">This is a paragraph in uppercase.</p>

```html
<p style="font-style:normal; color: red">
  This is a paragraph in normal style.
</p>
<p style="font-style:italic">This is a paragraph in italic style.</p>
<p style="font-weight:bold">This is a paragraph with bold weight.</p>
<p style="font-variant:small-caps">This is a paragraph with small caps.</p>
<p style="text-transform:uppercase">This is a paragraph in uppercase.</p>
```

### How to embed an external font

Many websites will import fonts they have bought, or fonts that are freely available for use. The [Google Fonts API](https://fonts.google.com) is very popular and can be imported into our websites as follows:

```html
<head>
  <link
    rel="stylesheet"
    href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Trirong"
  />
  <style>
    body {
      font-family: "Trirong", serif;
    }
  </style>
</head>
```

Above we have imported the _Trirong_ font and have used it in the body of our website.

It's also worth checking out the "pairings" on the Google Fonts site. This is where Google suggest common pairings. You will notice that the heading font is often very different from the body font to provide contrast. You can see this in various places on the Multiverse website. Check out the header [here](https://www.multiverse.io/en-GB/young-adults).

## Assignment

- Update your email template to so that it uses a font for the heading(s) and a font for the body. Feel free to embed from Google or use standard CSS fonts

- Ensure your font sizes are consistent thoughout

- Add any font styles as you see fit

## Assignment extension tasks

- Can you download a font, host it locally and load it to your page?

## Additional resources

[CSS Fonts](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_font.asp)
