# CSS Fundamentals

## Learning Objectives

- Understand the display property
- Understand the position property

## Pre-requisites

- A basic understanding of HTML
- A basic understanding of CSS

## Lesson

### Understand the display property

Every element has a `display` property and the default value depends on the type of element. Common display properties are: `inline`, `block`, and `inline-block`. You also have display properties such as `flex` and `grid`, which affect the children of the element (check out the chapters on flex and grid).

To see the display property, just add `display` and the value:

```css
/*
  An anchor is inline by default but we may 
  want it to behave like a block element...
*/

a.block-anchor {
  display: block;
}
```

- Inline elements are elements that group together on the same line. Top/bottom margins are ignored, as are height/width properties. Examples include: anchors, span and img.

- Block elements render on their own line. Margins and height/width properties are applied. Examples include: div, h1, p and form.

- Inline-block elements render on the same line, but behave like a block element.

> Try it yourself: [see the difference](https://jsfiddle.net/43ou0jmg/5/) between inline, block and inline block

### Understand the position property

As we've learnt, every element has a display property. The position property is the same - each element has a default position property (called `static`) but can also be overridden.

#### Static positioning

As mentioned static position is an element's default position. This means no positioning has been applied and the element will follow be in it's default position on a page.

```css
div.static {
  position: static;
}
```

Click [here](https://www.w3schools.com/css/tryit.asp?filename=trycss_position_static) to see an example of static positioning.

#### Relative positioning

Elements positioned relatively are positioned relative to their static position. Here you have access to the top, right, bottom and left properties to effectively move the element around as you see fit.

```css
div.relative {
  position: relative;
  left: 30px;
}
```

Click [here](https://www.w3schools.com/css/tryit.asp?filename=trycss_position_relative) to see an example of relative positioning.

#### Fixed positioning

Elements that are positioned using the fixed property are positioned relative to the viewport (i.e the boundaries of the browser/app) and always stay in the same place, even when scrolled. Similar to relative positioning, the top, right, bottom and left properties are available to you.

```css
div.fixed {
  position: fixed;
  bottom: 0;
  right: 0;
}
```

Click [here](https://www.w3schools.com/css/tryit.asp?filename=trycss_position_fixed) to see an example of relative positioning.

> Have you seen fixed positioned elements on the web? Where was it being used?

## Assignment

### Assignment extension tasks

## Additional resources
