# Client-side JavaScript

## Learning Objective
Understand how to run JavaScript in the browser.

## Pre-requisites
TODO

## Lesson
How can you run JavaScript in the browser? There are 2 main ways:

### Inline JavaScript

You can write JavaScript inline within an HTML file by enclosing your JavaScript in a `<script>` tag. As the page loads in the browser, the HTML file is read from top to bottom and any JavaScript in a `<script>` tag is executed when the page loads.

If we have libraries, modules or 3rd party JavaScript that we want to load (e.g. [Google Analytics](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs)), these should go within a `<script>` tag in the `<head>` element of the HTML page. 

JavaScript that targets HTML elements (usually our own application code) should be the final thing on the page to be included. In practice, that means your application code should be included in a `<script>` tag just before the closing `</body>` tag. This is because application code will often target an HTML element and if that element has not been loaded, our JavaScript will Error and Fail 😟.

### Loading JavaScript from a source file

You can also load JavaScript from a file by using the `<script>` tag and including the `src` HTML attribute to reference the file: 

```html
<script src="/main.js"></script>
```

When the JavaScript file (in this case `main.js`) has been loaded by the page, it will be executed. 


### Organising JavaScript files

Within the Browser, it's very important to understand that each JavaScript file that is loaded, shares the 'global scope' of the open browser `window` object. For example, a class defined in one file, will be available for another file to access once they are both loaded on the page. Any script can freely define/delete/change/call anything in the global scope. This is not the case in `Node.js` where the global scope of a module is the module itself.

You can't use the file system in the browser. In `Node.js` we made use of `module.exports` and `require` to load multiple `.js` files on our page. This allowed us to separate our code into distinct units which made it easier to understand. However, it should be noted that loading of each separate JavaScript file specified by `require` involves a separate round trip to the server and, in addition, there is no guarantee of the order the files will be returned. 

Browsers don't have the `require` method defined, however you can use tools such as [browserify](http://browserify.org/) to allow you to use `module.exports` and `require` within your frontend code, in the same way that you would use it in Node.

You can also use'bundlers', for example, [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/), [rollup](https://rollupjs.org/guide/en/), [parcel](https://parceljs.org/) and [browserify](http://browserify.org/)  to take JavaScript you have written in multiple files and 'bundle' them (with any dependencies) into one single file that you can serve to the client. 

Tools such as [nodemon](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nodemon) and [watchify](https://www.npmjs.com/package/watchify) can also help you develop JavaScript applications 're-bundling' the code when file changes are detected('hot reloading').

## Assignment
Try out the different ways of using JavaScript in front-end code by completing the following 2 assignments:

  1. Modify your restaurant code to include [Facebook 'like' and 'share' icons](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/plugins/like-button/) when you click on a restaurant. If you get problems seeing the icons, please disable 'Ad Blockers' in your browser.

     Notice how you are including a Facebook script. Once this script is included, you are able to use the Facebook 'like' CSS class.

  2. Now use inline JavaScript in your HTML to add a simple counter which increments each time the page is loaded:

```html
    <div>Number of page loads:
        <span id="Counter"></span>
    </div>
```


```javascript
    <script>
       var n = localStorage.getItem('on_load_counter');
       if (n === null) {
           n = 0;
       }
       n++;
       localStorage.setItem("on_load_counter", n);
       document.querySelector('#counter').innerText = `Visits to this page: ${localStorage.getItem('on_load_counter')}`
    </script>
```
   3. Commit your code into Github and share the link with your coach for review

## Assignment extension tasks
TODO

## Additional resources