# Route Parameters

## Learning Objectives

- Understand the purpose of route parameters
- Understand how to use route parameters to retrieve dynamic data

## Pre-requisites

TODO

## Lesson

Often, we want to work with a specific resource on the server. Let's imagine each restaurant has its own webpage. When a user navigates to that page, we need to fetch that specific restaurant's data. We could fetch _all_ the restaurants (using the `/restaurants` endpoint we created in the last lesson) but that would be wasteful. It's also not feasible, however, to create a new endpoint on our server for every resource in our database e.g.

```javascript
app.get('/restaurant1', (req, res) => {...})

app.get('/restaurant2', (req, res) => {...})

// and so on...
```

When writing RESTful APIs, the way we fetch a single resource within a set is by appending a `/<id>` to the path which fetches the entire set. For example, if we want to fetch the data for the restaurant with `id = 2` in our database, we would make a request to `/restaurants/2`

The `/` character in a path represents nesting. It's almost like our applicaiton server is _pretending_ that it's a static file server and has the restaurant data stored in a folder like this.

```sh
public
└── restaurants
    ├── 1
    ├── 2
    ├── 3
    ├── 4
    └── 5
```

### Express Route Parameters

We call these variable sections of path _route parameters_. Within express, we indicate a route parameter by prefixing with a colon e.g. `:id` as shown below.

```javascript
app.get("/restaurants/:id", async (req, res) => {
  console.log(req.params);
});
```

Express takes each of the route parameters and puts them in the `req.params` object. For example, if the the server recieved a request like `http://localhost:3000/resaurants/8` then `req.params` would be

```javascript
{ id: 8 }
```

## Assignment

1. Complete the `app.get("/restaurants/:id", ...` above so that it gets that restaurant's data from the database and returns it as a JSON. You will find the [findByPk](https://sequelize.org/master/class/lib/model.js~Model.html#static-method-findByPk) method useful.
   
2. Modify this endpoint so that the JSON also includes the information for all the menus and menu-items that belong to that restaurant. You might find the `include` option useful - you can see an example [here](https://sequelize.org/master/manual/eager-loading.html).

### Assignment extension tasks
