# Database access using Node.js

## Learning Objectives
* Connect to a SQL database using Node.js 
* Insert and manipulate data held in an SQL database using Node.js
* Understand how Prepared Statements help to mitigate SQL Injection attacks

## Pre-requisites
* Familiarity with [Basic SQL Commands](/curriculum/Bootcamp/Unit-2-Databases/0.2.3-Basic_SQL_Commands.html) and [SQL JOIN](/curriculum/Bootcamp/Unit-2-Databases/0.2.4-SQL_Joins.html)

* Installation of the `sqlite` by `alexcvzz` plugin for VSCode. This will allow you to visualise your database. Once installed,
  1. Select `View-Command Palette` from the menu
  2. Type `SQLite: Open Database` to select your database
  3. A `SQLITE EXPLORER` window should appear at the bottom of your VSCode Explorer view displaying your tables. 

* Installation of the SQLite node module. SQLite is a lightweight SQL database commonly used in embedded devices such as phones and games consoles. If you do not already have this installed please follow the instructions below:

  1. Create a [new Node.js project](/curriculum/Bootcamp/FAQ#createNewProject) for this lesson.
  1. Execute `npm install sqlite3` in the directory where your `package.json` lives. If you get errors, try `npm install sqlite3@5.0.0` instead. If you still have errors, follow the instructions below (note these are Windows specific):

     * Right click on VSCode and 'run as Administrator'. Navigate to the directory where your `package.json` file is and run `npm install --global --production windows-build-tools@4.0.0`. 
     * Close VSCode and run it again (this time not as administrator i.e. just double click on the icon). Execute `npm install sqlite3@5.0.0` in the directory where your `package.json` lives.

    To check your install is successful, paste the following code into a file named `dbconnect.js` and run the file with `node dbconnect.js`. 

```js
    const sqlite3 = require('sqlite3').verbose();

    const db = new sqlite3.Database(':memory:', (err) => {
        if (err) {
        return console.error(err.message);
        }
        console.log('Connected to the in-memory SQlite database.');
    });
  
    // close the database connection
    db.close((err) => {
        if (err) {
        return console.error(err.message);
        }
        console.log('Close the database connection.');
    });
```

## Lesson
In this lesson we will save the database as a file written to our local disk rather than in-memory. This means that the data can be accessed even when our program has stopped running. We will interact with our database using JavaScript (Node.js).

The following Node.js code creates a RESTAURANT table in a database named 'restaurants.sqlite' and inserts a row into it:

```js
const sqlite3 = require('sqlite3').verbose();

const db = new sqlite3.Database('./restaurants.sqlite');

try {
    db.serialize(function () { 

        db.run("CREATE TABLE RESTAURANT(id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, 
                                        name TEXT, image TEXT");

        let stmt;

        try {
            stmt = db.prepare(`INSERT INTO Restaurants (id, name, link) VALUES 
                        (1, 'Bayroot', 'https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/Travel/Destinations/Europe/England/Brighton/brighton-restaurants-hotel-du-vin-bistro.jpg')`);
            stmt.run();
        } finally {
            // release resources 
            stmt.finalize();
        }

        // select the rows and print them out
        db.each("SELECT * FROM Restaurants",
            function (err, rows) {  
                console.log(rows);  
            }
        );
    });
} finally {
    // release resources 
    db.close();
}
```     
Let's walk through the code step by step.

```javascript
const sqlite3 = require('sqlite3')
const db = new sqlite3.Database('./db.sqlite')
```
In the lines above we import the `sqlite3` package then access a constructor on the `sqlite3` object and use the `new` keyword to instantiate a new instance of our database for our program. We can pass some config to our `Database` constructor, here we are passing in a relative path to where the database file either already exists, or where we would like it to be created and with what name.

The code uses a [try/finally](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_try_catch.asp) block to ensure that the statement and database are closed regardless of whether an error occurs. This is best practice to avoid memory leaks.

The code also makes use of [Prepared Statements](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/SQL_Injection_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet.html) which are key for ensure your database applications are not vulnerable to [SQL injection attacks](https://portswigger.net/web-security/sql-injection). Watch this video to find out more about this kind of attack

!(https://www.youtube.com/embed/wX6tszfgYp4)

## Assignment
  1. Write Node.js code to create a new, persistent database containing the tables described by the UML diagram in the [SQL Joins](/curriculum/Bootcamp/Unit-2-Databases/0.2.4-SQL_Joins.html) lesson. Ensure you create FOREIGN KEYs as appropriate. 
  2. Write Node.js code to insert one row into the Restaurant table and ensure that this Restaurant has 2 Menus. Insert 2 Menu Items per Menu. 
  3. Write Node.js code to list all the Menu Items belonging to a specific Menu for the Restaurant.
  4. Commit your code into Github and share the link with your coach for review.

### Assignment extension tasks
* Research SQL injection attacks which made the news 

## Additional resources
