# Sequelize - part 1

## Pre-requisites
Familiarity with [Database access using Node](/curriculum/Bootcamp/Unit-3-Relational_Databases/0.3.5-Database_access_using_Node.html) including the instructions described there for installing SQLite.

## Learning Objectives
Learn the ORM pattern for the most popular SQL ORM available for Node.js - [Sequelize](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sequelize). 

## Lesson
It is possible to build an Object Relational Mapping (ORM) tool from scratch for each project but it is time consuming and requires careful management of resources. Your app will have a much more solid foundation if it is built with a commercial ORM framework such as Sequelize. Sequelize is a promise-based Node.js ORM for multiple database including SQLite. 

### Installing Sequelize
Install Sequelize by running:
`npm install sequelize`

Create a file named `sequelize_index.js` with the following content:
```js
const {Sequelize, DataTypes, Model} = require('sequelize');

const sequelize = new Sequelize('database', 'username', 'password', {
    dialect: 'sqlite',
    storage: './restaurants-seq.sqlite'
});

 module.exports={sequelize, DataTypes, Model};
```
This file contains code that would otherwise be duplicated in the individual model classes. It sets up a connection to a SQLite database and imports Sequelize types. You can see that it would be very easy to specify a different type of database in the future just by changing this config.

### Testing code written using Sequelize

Let's start with a failing test:

```javascript
const {sequelize} = require('./sequelize_index');
const {Restaurant} = require('./Restaurant')

describe('Restaurant', () => {
    /**
     * Runs the code prior to all tests
     */
    beforeAll(async () => {
        // the 'sync' method will create tables based on the model class
        // by setting 'force:true' the tables are recreated each time the 
        // test suite is run
        await sequelize.sync({ force: true });
    })

    test('can create a restaurant', async () => {
        await sequelize.sync({ force: true }); // recreate db
        const restaurant = await Restaurant.create({ name: 'Ronalds', image: 'http://some.image.url' })
        expect(restaurant.id).toBe(1)
    })
})
```
Before we start our tests (or later our application server) we need to call and wait for `sequelize.sync()`. This command performs a SQL query to the database and creates tables (based on our class models) or modifies the table structure to match the class models. The `{ force: true }` parameter forces the tables to be recreated each time the test suite is run (this ensures the `expect` line passes as there will only be a single row in the database).

In our test you can see the API for Sequelize. To create a new instance of a Restaurant we call a static method on the class called `create`. We pass in an object with the field names, and the values we want to store. In our test which kind of async function are we using?

### Defining the model
Models are fundamental to Sequelize. A Model represents a table in your database. It is represented by a class that extends `Model`. Here is an example for the `Restaurant` class:

```javascript
const {sequelize, DataTypes, Model} = require('./sequelize_index');

/**
 * Represents a Restaurant
 */
class Restaurant extends Model {

    // add methods here

}
Restaurant.init({
    name: DataTypes.STRING,
    image: DataTypes.STRING,
}, {
    sequelize,
    timestamps: false,
});

module.exports = {
    Restaurant
};
```
In the code above we de-structure assign three constructors from the sequelize module: Sequelize, Model & DataTypes. 

Our class definition just requires us to extend from the Sequelize class `Model` (note that there are alternative methods to inheritance if required), plus the addition of an `init` method which defines the table columns and their types. The `timestamps: false` setting avoids a `created_at` column appearing. There are many more customisations you can achieve if you refer to the [Sequelize documentation](https://sequelize.org/master/).

## Assignment
   1. Ensure you project has a dependency on  SQLlite and Sequelize.
   1. Create Restaurant, Menu and Item classes to represent the [UML diagram from the Basic SQL Commands](/curriculum/Bootcamp/0.3.3-Basic_SQL_Commands.html)
   1. Add code to map each class to a database table in a new database file (ignore relationships for now). Use the Restaurant class above as an example.
   1. Create a test based on the code above to check that your tables are created and that you can insert data into them.
   1. Commit your code into Github and share the link with your coach for review.

### Assignment extension tasks
  * Think about what benefits an ORM gives over writing the database mapping code yourself. What disadvantages could using an ORM bring?


## Additional resources
[Sequalize documentation](https://sequelize.org/master/)