# End of Bootcamp Group Project - Introduction

Your group project will give you experience in the some of the 7 stages of the software development life cycle.

1. Business needs
1. Requirements engineering
1. Design
1. Development
1. Testing
1. Deployment
1. Maintenance

## Assignment
Your team has a (coach specified) number of days in which to [design](/curriculum/Bootcamp/Unit-6-End_Of_Bootcamp_Group_Project/0.6.4-Design) and develop an app which conforms to the [functional and non-functional requirements](/curriculum/Bootcamp/Unit-6-End_Of_Bootcamp_Group_Project/0.6.2-Requirements) listed here.

All code must be stored in a GitHub repository and [git branches and pull requests](/curriculum/Bootcamp/Unit-6-End_Of_Bootcamp_Group_Project/0.6.6-Branching_and_Pull_Requests) used to review code changes from individuals.

Each GitHub repository has a section for hosting documentation called a 'wiki'. A README.md file in your repository can describe at a high level what your project is about; you can use the wiki to add additional documentation.

You should work in an [Agile](/curriculum/Bootcamp/Unit-6-End_Of_Bootcamp_Group_Project/0.6.3-Agile_Development) manner, using a [GitHub project board](/curriculum/Bootcamp/Unit-6-End_Of_Bootcamp_Group_Project/0.6.5-GitHub_Projects) to document and assign tasks and holding daily standups to communicate progress and any blockers.

You may want to [deploy your code](/curriculum/Bootcamp/Unit-6-End_Of_Bootcamp_Group_Project/0.6.7-Deployment_with_Heroku) to a cloud server.

You may want to make use of the following tools to support your development:
  * A Slack channel to aid team communication
  * A [Jam Board](https://jamboard.google.com/) to brainstorm ideas

## Show and tell

At the end of the week you will have the opportunity to present your project as a group. Below are some suggested talking points. To show your app working you can prepare a short demo that showcases the main functionality of the app.

* How did you find working as a group?
* How easy was it to incorporate tools and design patterns you had been introduced to during the bootcamp?
* What would you do differently next time?

## Individual feature (optional)

You have the option to extend the group project and implement your own feature. It is up to you how you go about this. You might:

* Redesign the site (CSS)
* Add more functionality 

Your individual work can also be presented at the end of the week.

## Next steps after the Bootcamp

Now you have completed the first part of your apprenticeship you are ready to start growing your skills on the job. Look out for the patterns and concepts we have looked at. You will be exposed to new technologies, new tools and even new languages but should recognise;

* Test driven development
* Object Oriented Programming
* Recursion
* Async
* Client side JavaScript
* Server side code
* Object relational mapping
* Relational databases

Spend the first few weeks learning about your team, the product you are working on and getting to know your team members. You can also start your portfolio and write about these first weeks in there. You will have 2 objectives on Applied set for you. Focus on these for now.

Well Done!

