# End of Bootcamp Group Project - Introduction

Congratulations, you have completed your learning for the Bootcamp! You are now ready to start your group project. 

Your group project will give you experience in the some of the 7 stages of the software development life cycle.

1. Business needs
1. Requirements engineering
1. Design
1. Development
1. Testing
1. Deployment
1. Maintenance

You will also experience using an Agile approach to software development.

## Assignment
Your team has 5 days to develop a website which conforms to the functional and non-functional requirements listed here.

All code must be stored in a GitHub repository and git pull requests used to review code changes.

Each GitHub repository has a section for hosting documentation called a 'wiki'. A README.md file in your repository can describe at a high level what your project is about; you can use the wiki to add additional documentation.

You should work in an Agile manner, using a GitHub project board to document and assign tasks and holding daily standups to communicate progress and any blockers.

You can deploy to

You may want to make use of the following tools to support your development:
  * A Slack channel to aid team communication
  * A [Jam Board](https://jamboard.google.com/) to brainstorm ideas

## Show and tell

At the end of the week you will have the opportunity to present your project as a group. Below are some suggested talking points. To show your app working you can prepare a short demo that showcases the main functionality of the app.

* How did you find working as a group?
* How easy was it to incorporate tools and design patterns you had been introduced to during the bootcamp?
* What would you do differently next time?

## Individual feature

The last few days of the bootcamp will be reserved for you to take you group project and implement your own feature. It is up to you how you go about this. You might:

* Redesign the site (CSS)
* Add more functionality (user defined columns)
* Add notifications via SMS or email

Your individual work can also be presented at the end of the week.

## What next

Now you have completed the first part of your apprenticeship you are ready to start growing your skills on the job. Look out for the patterns and concepts we have looked at. You will be exposed to new technologies, new tools and even new languages but should recognise;

* Test driven development
* Object Orientated Programming
* Recursion
* Async
* Client side javascript
* Server side code
* Object relational mapping
* Relational databases

Spend the first few weeks learning about your team, the product you are working on and getting to know your team members. You can also start your portfolio and write about these first weeks in there. You have 2 objectives on applied set for you. Focus on these for now.

Well Done!


### MockLab
[MockLab](http://get.mocklab.io/) allows you to simulate APIs without writing any code. It's a great tool for allowing the front end to continue development whilst the backend is in development.




https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2019/08/shopping-cart-html5-web-storage/

https://www.w3schools.com/html/html5_webstorage.asp (local or session)

http://tutorials.jenkov.com/html5/local-storage.html for basket? Ensure not use for sensitive info.

https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/HTML5_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html#local-storage

send over basket on checkout - use ORM to serialise?

Hide local storage API with wrapper

Use these websites for product info:



makeup api

other free shop apis


