# Javascript Promises

## Learning Objectives
- Understand what promises are
- Understand how to consume promises

## Pre-requisites

- Familiarity with the javascript event loop

## Lesson

### Async the Easier Way

Have a look at the code below:

```javascript
console.log("Down")
    setTimeout(() => {
        console.log("the")
        setTimeout(() => {
            console.log("Rabbit")
            setTimeout(() => {
                console.log("Hole")
            }, 3000);
        }, 2000)
    }, 1000)
```

What do you think of it? Is it easy to read?

What about this:

```javascript
    console.log("Down")
    await pause(1000)
    console.log("the")
    await pause(2000)
    console.log("Rabbit")
    await pause(3000)
    console.log("Hole")
```

You might not yet know what the `await` keyword does but I think you'll agree that this second version is easier to follow. Unlike the previous example, the code reads as a top-to-bottom list of instructions, rather than a tangled mess of nested callbacks.

The 2nd example has been simplified by using **promises**.

### Introducing Promises

A promise is an **object** which represents an asynchronous task. A promise begins in the `pending` state and, once the asynchronous task is finished, transitions to either `fulfilled` or `rejected`. In the example above, the `pause` function (definition not shown) is returning a promise.

A place you'll likely use promises is in the `fetch` web api. A call to `fetch(url)` will make a GET request to the given url. Network requests take a long time, however, so the `fetch` function returns a promise which represents the request.

```javascript
const fetchRequest = fetch('https://www.multiverse.io/en-GB');

console.log(fetchRequest);
```

If we ran this, the logs would show us that fetchRequest is a pending Promise: 

```
>> Promise {<pending>}
```

### `async` - `await`

If we want to use the data returned in the network response, we first need to wait for the promise to resolve. To do this, we can use the `await` keyword.

```javascript
const data = await fetch('https://www.multiverse.io/en-GB');
```
Here, `data` is the actual information we asked for in the network request. The `await` keyword does 2 things:
- it pauses the code until the promise has finished `pending`
- it gives us the unwrapped value of the promise

The `await` keyword can only be used inside `async` functions:

```javascript
async function getMultiversePage() {
    const data = await fetch('https://www.multiverse.io/en-GB');
    // do stuff with the data
}
```

`async` functions also **always return a promise**. Take the code below:

```javascript
async function double(x) {
    return 2 * x
}

console.log(double(10))
```

Even though there is no asynchronous logic, so we aren't having to wait for anything, the output is still a promise:

```
>> Promise { 20 }
```

### Consuming with `then`

An alternative to `async/await` is to use a promise's `then` method:

```javascript
fetch(`https://www.multiverse.io/en-GB`)
    .then(data => {
        // do stuff with the data
    })
```
Like `await`, `then` waits for the promise to finish. However, when using `then`, we have to supply it with a callback which it calls once the promise is finished pending, passing in the unwrapped value (called `data` here). 

The advantage of `then` is that it can be used outside of `async` functions; however, pay attention to the order of execution:

```javascript
const myPromise = pause(1000); // resolves after 1s
console.log(1)
myPromise.then(() => {
    console.log(2)
});
console.log(3)
```

```
>> 1
>> 3
>> 2
```

Note that the "3" was printed before the "2". Javascript will finish executing the code after the `then` and come back to it once the promise is resolved and the call stack is clear.

Although `then` uses a callback style, we can chain `then`s together to avoid the messy nesting we saw earlier:

```javascript
fetch('http://example.com/multiverse.json')
  .then(response => response.json())
  .then(data => console.log(data));
```

## Assignment

TODO

### `pause` function

```javascript
function pause(time) {
    return new Promise(resolve => {
        setTimeout(resolve, time);
    })
}
```
