# Code-along using the Vue CDN

Over the following pages, we will build a Vue app from scratch using a ficticious shop called 'Plant Direct'. The team at Plants Direct have already been through the Requirements and Design stages and have identified the most important tickets to add to their first sprint. They put the UI together in a previous sprint, which can be found [here](https://github.com/MultiverseLearningProducts/swe2-solutions/tree/main/MOD1/plants-direct-starter/starter).

Your instructions are to download the files and open up the project in your favourite code editor.

## Learning Objectives

- Install Vue
- Establish a data model
- Create your first Vue component

### Install Vue

For this code-along, we will be using the Vue CDN link to grab the latest copy of Vue. Open up your index.html file. In it, at the bottom, you'll see:

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/vue"></script>
```

Next up, we need to create an instance of Vue and tell us which element to mount on, which is just a fancy way of saying the element Vue will target to dynamically update content.

In main JS, add:

```javascript
var app = new Vue({
  el: '#app',
  data: {
    greeting: 'Hello, Vue!',
  },
});
```

And in your HTML somewhere (within the #app div), add:

```vue
{{ this.greeting }}
```

Refresh your page and you should see the greeting!

### Establish a data state

Feel free to delete the greeting and let's turn our attention to the data state. The data state is central our app; without it, Vue has nothing to display or dynamically update. Each component can have it's own state but for now, we'll add state to the global Vue component we have created.

In the Git directory where your found the source files, you will see a products.json file. Open the contents and grab everything between the curly braces.

Add this data into your Vue app's data field:

```javascript
    data: {
        cart: [],
        // add other data here
    },
```

Now add `{{this.products[0].name}}` to your HTML source and you should see the product name.

### Create your first Vue component

## Assignment

## Additional resources
