# Vue routing

Most apps as they grow need to support routing. Routing in the context of frameworks is the binding of components to URLs so that when a request comes in for a URL such as `/about`, the `About` component is rendered into the view. Vue has an entire library dedicated to routing and we'll explore it now.

## Learning Objectives

- Learn how Vue routing works
- Integrate routing into our app

## How Vue routing works

Vue's router works by creating a new instance of the Vue router and passing in an array of routes.

Add the following into main.js:

```javascript
const router = new VueRouter({
  routes: [
    {
      path: '/',
      component: Home,
    },
  ],
});
```

We then need to pass our new router object into our main component like so:

```javascript
var app = new Vue({
  router,
  el: '#app',

  // other elements omitted
```

You'll notice we only support one route for now, which is the index route. This route wants to load the Home component - more on this below.

### Reimagining our app

When using the Vue router, we render components inside a `router-view` tag. This raises the question: how to we render what's on the home page with this new set-up? The answer is we need to introduce a Home component. This component will be responsible for the main home page content and will render the three products that are currently rendered from the index.html file.

Remove the home content from index.html and add it into a Home component in your main.js file. You should end up with something like this:

```javascript
const Home = Vue.component('Home', {
  template: `
    <div>
      <h2>Popular plants</h2>
      <p>
        Want to "fernish" your home? Then you're in the right place! Take a
        look at our selection of plants below.
      </p>
      <div class="promo-blocks products">
        <product
          v-for="product in products"
          v-bind:key="product.productId"
          v-bind:product="product"
        ></product>
      </div>
    </div>
  `,
});
```

Replace the content you remove in index.html with router-view tags. You should end up with something like this:

```html
<main>
  <div class="container">
    <!-- add this line -->
    <router-view />
  </div>
</main>
```

If you refresh your page now it should work, but our products are now showing. This is because the Home component has no concept of a Product at this point in time. We have to pass the products as a `prop` if it is to work.

Modify your router tag to:

```html
<router-view v-bind:products="this.products" />
```

Given what we've covered so far, you may be able to see and explain what's going on here!

The last thing we need to do is tell the Home component to expect a property called `products`. To do that, you may remember we need to add a `props` field to the home component:

```javascript
const Home = Vue.component('Home', {
  template: `
    <!-- HTML omitted -->
  `,
  props: ['products'], // add this line
  methods: {
    // methods omitted
  },
});
```

Now when you refresh your page, your Home component will be able to "see" the products passed down via the router view.

The last step is to replace our main menu with `router-links` ready for the coding challenge. Replace the main menu links in index.html with:

```html
<ul class="navbar__navigation">
  <li><router-link to="/">Home</router-link></li>
  <li><router-link to="/about">About</router-link></li>
  <li><router-link to="/contact">Contact</router-link></li>
</ul>
```

## Assignment - Coding challenge 1

You'll notice that the new router links actually work, except no component is rendered. Your coding challenge is to create two new routes for `/about` and `/contact`
and two new components `About` and `Contact` that are loaded into the router view when requested.

## Additional resources

- [Guide to Vue routing](https://router.vuejs.org/guide/#javascript)
