# Requirements
## Learning Objectives

- Understand what software requirements are
- Understand the benefit of creating requirements
- Be capable of creating effective requirements

## Requirements

### What are Requirements?

The IEEE Standard Glossary of Software Engineering Terminology defines a requirement as any of the following:

> - A condition or capability needed by a user to solve a problem or achieve an objective.
> - A condition or capability that must be met or possessed by a system or system component to satisfy a contract, standard, specification, or other formally imposed document.
> - A documented representation of a condition or capability as in 1 or 2.

Requirements can be expressed in:
- Natural Language (e.g. in simple English)
- Mathematical formulae
- Graphs (e.g. UML)
- Code/pseudocode

### Why are Requirements Important?

Requirements are hugely important as they should form the basis of all your design decisions. By making requirements explicit and sharing them with the stakeholder, you can also be much more confident that your understanding of their business needs are correct and they will be satisfied by the product you create.

### Functional vs Non-functional Requirements

Requirements can be divided into *functional* and *non-functional*. Functional requirements describe what the system should do. Non-functional requirements describe how the system should do it, they are the properties of the system. As an example, a functional requirement of a car might be:

> The engine switches on when the key is turned in the ignition

A non-functional requirement of the car might be:

> The fuel economy of the car should be at least 40mpg

In software, non-functional requirements often involve performance criteria (e.g. speed of computation, memory usage etc.) or conformance to certain standards (e.g. accessability, security etc.).

### How are Requirements gathered?

Requirements are gathered through communication with the stakeholder. For example, this can communication can be in the form of interviews or questionnaires. It's important when communicating with the stakeholder to consider feasibility. You as the development team are responsible for rejecting requirements that are unrealistic given the budget/timeframe.

## Assignment

In your groups, create sets of functional and non-functional requirements respectively based on your chosen oppurtunity.