# Introduction Agile

## Learning Objectives

* Discuss the benefits and disadvantages of both waterfall and agile

## Software methodologies

Agile development is an abstract concept like "communism" or "capitalism". It was born from a reaction to the more traditional style of planing and execution used in manufacturing and apply to software engineering in its early days. For example if you consider the way a car is developed it is managed in sequential stages. One stage is completed before the next stage starts. This is like a waterfall where the focus of development cascades down through a series of steps.

## Waterfall

This style of project management made great sense in manufacturing. There would be a business driver, a company identifying a gap in the market. Followed by a research and proposal stage, that would lead into a design phase, then actual manufacturing, then testing and finally introducing the product into the market, then finally generating profit!

In the absence of alternative methodologies early software was commissioned and project managed in this waterfall style. However after a series of large software projects ran over budget and over time, the software engineers responsible begin to consider there might be better ways to organise the development of software.

## Agile

In 2001 the __Manifesto for Agile Software Development__ was published:

> We are uncovering better ways of developing
> software by doing it and helping others do it.
> Through this work we have come to value:

|_We value these more_|_We value these_|
|:--------------------------|:-----------------------|
|Individuals and interactions|over processes and tools|
|Working software|over comprehensive documentation|
|Customer collaboration|over contract negotiation|
|Responding to change|over following a plan|

There are a set of 12 principles behind the manifesto

1. Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.

1. Welcome changing requirements, even late in development. Agile processes harness change for the customer's competitive advantage.

1. Deliver working software frequently, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months, with a preference to the shorter timescale.

1. Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project.

1. Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done.

1. The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation.

1. Working software is the primary measure of progress.

1. Agile processes promote sustainable development. The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to maintain a constant pace indefinitely.

1. Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility.

1. Simplicity--the art of maximizing the amount of work not done--is essential.

1. The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams.

1. At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly.

## Why Agile?

In groups can you look through the manifesto and 12 principles; imagine the kind of scenarios that must've occurred for the developers to come up with that principle. i.e. _Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software._ must have been born from the frustration of delivering software the customer didn't want, late.

## Minimal Viable Product (MVP)

The Agile manifesto was responsible for an explosion of thought in the manufacturing space. One of the concepts that has become very influential is Eric Ries notion of the MVP from his book "[Lean Startup](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Lean-Startup-Entrepreneurs-Continuous-Innovation/dp/B005MR4NCC/ref=sr_1_1?dchild=1&keywords=lean+startup&qid=1624367620&sr=8-1)".

> "the minimum viable product is that version of a new product which allows a team to collect the maximum amount of validated learning about customers with the least effort."
<small>Eric Ries</small>

Can you see how this idea fits with the Agile principles and Manifesto?

From the point of view of building software in an agile way the MVP is really helpful. To figure what your users need/want you give them something to use. You learn from this and iterate, refining and using feedback to tweak your service or product. At each stage you try to deliver something you have learned about the problem or your customer.

## In practice

Armed with these ideas you are ready to start putting into practice some of these ideas. We are going to give you a set of business problems (see below). In groups we would like you to state for each problem 5 things that you need to learn or validate with your first prototype.

----

### Opportunity #1

A social care company provides home based health care for the elderly. The pool of carers work in shifts and visit properties in pairs. A care package includes 3 visits each day; morning, afternoon and evening, 7 days a week. At present the central office draws up rota's on a spreadsheet and as carers visit a property they sign in and out on a sheet of paper that is collected at the end of the week and used to invoice clients. Sometimes the signing sheet is lost or not handed in. Also carers can be delayed at some properties and this has caused some heated complaints. Can you help this company be more efficient?

### Opportunity #2

A marketing business has 25 clients using their platform. Each client required quite a lot of manual setup. 

1. create a new client folder with html css and js
1. copy designs and add client's own branding to pages
1. set up new entry in the database for that client
1. set up analytics script and configure it to send data to new endpoint
1. create new endpoint for client analytics to be stored

They want to grow, but are limited by the time and work it takes to set up new clients. Can you help them?

### Opportunity #3

A marketing company runs marketing campaigns in the press. Each staff member usually creates a new spreadsheet when they start a campaign. As they contact journalists they keep track of who they have contacted and what they have agreed to publish where and when. Senior managers are realising there is a lot of copy and pasting of journalist's contact details, and they lose a lot of data when a campaign ends as the spreadsheet is usually archived and never opened again. For example in the data they would be able to know what journalists are interested in what products. They need help.
