# Requirements
## Learning Objectives

- Understand what software requirements are
- Understand the benefit of creating requirements
- Be capable of creating effective requirements

## Requirements

### What are Requirements?

The IEEE Standard Glossary of Software Engineering Terminology defines a requirement as _a condition or capability needed by a user to solve a problem or achieve an objective_.

### Why are Requirements important?

Requirements are hugely important as they form the basis of all your design decisions. By making requirements explicit and validating them with the project stakeholders, you can be confident that their business needs will be satisfied by the product you create.

### How are Requirements gathered?
> "Requirements are not just waiting to be picked from people like apples from a tree. They have to be mined like tin or iron" <small>_Developing Information Systems by James Cadle_</small>

Requirements are typically gathered by a Business Analyst through communication with project stakeholders. Communication can take a number of forms, for example: 

*   Interviews
*   Focus groups
*   Workshops
*   Observations
*   Questionnaires

### Functional vs Non-functional Requirements

Functional requirements describe _how_ a system should work, for example:

|**ID**|**Priority**|**Description**|
|------|------------|---------------|
|FR1|MUST|Menu options include vegetarian, vegan and calorie controlled choices
|FR2|MUST|Allergen information is displayed against each ingredient|
|FR3|MUST|The password reset email contains a unique link which expires after one hour|
|FR4|SHOULD|Payment options include ApplePay|

Non-functional requirements describe the _constraints_ on the system such as system availability, conformance to security standards etc. Some examples are listed below but take time to study a more complete list on [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-functional_requirement)

|**ID**|**Priority**|**Description**|
|------|------------|---------------|
|NFR1|MUST|The home page loads in less than 2 seconds|
|NFR2|MUST|The system supports up to 1000 concurrent users|
|NFR3|MUST|Data is held in a Postgres database|

!(https://www.youtube.com/embed/zCX-N1H8Vps)

There is quite an art to form a good requirement. Below are the main qualities your requirement must have:

*   Unique and atomic (focusses on one thing)
*   Complete
*   Consistent and unambiguous
*   Traceable
*   Prioritised
*   Testable

Let's look at some examples of good and poor requirements in terms of how "complete" and "unambiguous" they are:

|**Poor**|**Good**|
|--------|--------|
|The system must be useable|The system must conform to the [Nielson Top 10 Usability Heuristics](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/ten-usability-heuristics/)|
|The system must be well tested|All code must have 80% test coverage|

## Assignment

In your groups, document a set of requirements (each labelled as functional or non-functional) based on your chosen opportunity. 