# Session based Auth 

## Learning Objectives
* Understand the limitations of Basic Auth
* Know why and how to use sessions on a server 

## Pre-requisites
  * Ensure you have the Postman application installed

## Materials needed
  * Postman application 
  * VS Code (for Javascript development) or IntelliJ (for Java development)

## What's wrong with Basic Auth?
  * The password is sent over the wire in base64 encoding which can be easily decoded (if Basic Auth is used, it should always go over HTTPS for this reason)
  * The password is sent repeatedly i.e. on each request meaning there is a large attack window
  * The password is cached by the web browser, therefore it could be silently reused by any other request to the server e.g. CSRF
  * The password may be stored permanently in the browser hence could be stolen by another user on a shared machine


## Sessions

Wouldn't it be much better if after being authenticated the server could keep track of which users it had already checked the passwords for. This is the purpose of sessions on a server. They are a means by which the server can keep track of who is who. Without sessions our server will just treat each request the same.

Lets have a look at trying to manage state on a server. Start a new project just for this Counter example. Lets be really simple and just imagine we have a counter.

```javascript
class Counter {
    constructor() {
        this.value = 1
    }

    inc() {
        this.value += 1
        return this.value.toString()
    }
}
```

We want to expose this to our users so they can make requests and receive incrementing values i.e. 1,2,3,4,5 etc

```javascript
app.get('/counter', (req, res) => {
    const counter = new Counter()
    res.send(counter.inc())
})
```

❓ What is the problem with this?

Lets pull the counter out of the route and have it in the scope of the server instance:

```javascript
const counter = new Counter()

app.get('/counter', (req, res) => {
    res.send(counter.inc())
})
```

❓ What is the problem with this? (try different browser windows)

The behaviour we are after is each connected client gets their own dedicated counter. So as they refresh their individual page, their personal counter increments.

For this we will need to extend our server by adding sessions. The session object will be added to the request object. Each individually connected client will be allocated a `req.session.id` unique to them and there interaction with the server. On the session object we can store values for that connection. For example:

```javascript
req.session.user_id = user.id
```

You can only store JSON stringable values so our instance of our counter cannot be stored as it will get turned into the string representation of the class instance. No good to us. So we will use the `req.session.id` as a hashkey so we can lookup the counter for each particular connected client.

### Use Sessions

To add sessions `npm i express-session` then use the following config:

```javascript
const session = require('express-session')
const sessionSettings = {
    secret: "best cohort ever",
    resave: false,
    saveUninitialized: true
}
app.use(session(sessionSettings))
```

Update your Counter class to keep track of every instance (use a static property).

```javascript
class Counter {
    static lookup = {}
    
    constructor(id) {
        this.value = 1
        Counter.lookup[id] = this // every counter we create is added to the lookup hash map which we can access at Counter.lookup
    }

    inc() {
        this.value += 1
        return this.value.toString()
    }
}
```

Add a middleware function that will run on every request this makes sure new requests have an instance of the counter they can access with their session id:

```javascript
app.use((req, res, next) => {
    Counter.lookup[req.session.id] = Counter.lookup[req.session.id] || new Counter(req.session.id)
    next()
})
```

finally in the route return the next value

```javascript
app.get('/counter', (req, res) => {
    res.send(Counter.lookup[req.session.id].inc())
})
```

❓ How can we use this functionality to authenticate a user only once?

This is now a more familiar concept to you. Getting a session assigned to you is like 'logging' in. To 'log out' you just remove that counter from the session.

## Assignment

* Implement sessions on your server
* Add `/login` and `/logout` routes
* The `/login` route should be the only route that accepts a Basic Auth request
* Once a user is authenticated with Basic Auth add them to a session
* Update `/users/:id` to only return the user info if the user is in a session
* If a user is in a session and visits the `/logout` route this should end their session,  and they will no longer be able to access `/users/:id`
* Put your solution on Github and share it with your coach

## Further resources

!(https://www.youtube.com/embed/B2MbcnJmGuk)

In this video Bernard demo's the Counter example.
