# Module 2 Challenge - Banking App

## Learning Objectives
Demonstrate what you have learnt in this Module by developing a Banking App.

## Pre-requisites
Completion of this module's lessons

## Requirements
You are required to develop a set of APIs, secured by OAuth which are only accessible to (Auth0) registered users of a Banking App.

The APIs must allow:
* Users to see a balance on their account 
* A User to transfer money to their friends

The Banking App must provide the ability to:
* Register a new User
* Login
* Logout
* Display the logged in User's balance 
* Display a list of the logged in User's friends
* Allow a logged in User to transfer money to a friend

(Optional)
* Data should be stored in a database rather than hardcoded (given you may be working in a new language for the first time, this is optional but encouraged)
* The app may be deployed to Heruku
* A User should be able to invite a friend via a link in an email as per the video in the Additional Resources section (if you integrate with gmail for this you <strong>MUST create a new dummy gmail account and NEVER use current personal or work account!!</strong> You must also <strong>use an [application password](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185833) rather than your password</strong> and, once your project is completed, you must <strong>delete the account</strong>)

Your coach will advise whether this will be completed as a group or an individual assignment.

## Assignment
1. Come up with a design pitch for this Banking App.

     * What will your data model look like? Your data model will be spread over 2 servers - the user model on Auth0 and the rest of the account/transaction model in your database.
     * How can you transfer funds from one user to another?
     * How can a user add funds?
     * What UI do you need to build?
     * How will you trigger an email?
     * How will the link in the email work?

1. Document the design using UML

1. Code the APIs and write tests to prove they are secure

1. Develop a front-end App (hint - easiest to generate via Auth0 as you did in the previous lesson) which implements the requirements.
     * You will need to have a public folder to serve assets out of i.e. `style.css`
     * You need to decide on how you will integrate your frontend views (handlebars, pug, vue.js, react)

1. Commit your code to GitHub (use `.gitignore` to avoid checking in an environment variables / Auth0 account details)

You will have 2 days to complete this challenge. 

## Additional resources
Before you watch this video, please be aware that if you integrate with gmail you <strong>MUST create a new dummy gmail account and NEVER use current personal or work account!!</strong> You must also <strong>use an [application password](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185833) rather than your password</strong> and, once your project is completed, you must <strong>delete the account</strong>

!(https://www.youtube.com/embed/dhoW2_pME4A)

This video will get you set up with `nodemailer` so you can send emails.