# Cypress Testing

## Learning Objectives
* Understand the purpose of system tests
* Set up Cypress testing in your project

## Pre-requisites

## Lesson
Today we will look at front-end system testing using a tool called [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/).

### What does Cypress do?
Have you been testing your app in the browser to make sure it works? Cypress can automate this for you. Encoding critical user journeys is incredibly valuable. It is much quicker than us manually clicking round the site. These journeys are then repeatable and continuous integration tools can be set up to run these tests before each deployment.

### Installing Cypress
To install Cypress in your project folder run:

```sh
npm install cypress --save-dev
```

This may take a while as there are a large number of dependencies!

Run `./node_modules/.bin/cypress open` - this will add a number of folders and sample tests to your project directory. If you prefer you can delete these examples to save any confusion but do keep the `cypress/integration` and `cypress/fixures` folders.

### Getting started
When running Cypress tests, make sure your app is deployed in a test mode i.e. runs within an environment which uses a test or in-memory database with fixed 'seed' data. This will ensure that all tests are repeatable have have expected results.

Writing Cypress tests is similar to the tests we have been writing with Jest. What is new is the `cy` object. This object is our API for driving the browser. In the `/cypress/integration` folder, create a test spec file, for example `homepage.spec.js`. Then create a simple test like the one below.

```javascript
describe('Restaurant tests', () => {
    it('clicking "Add" navigates to a new url', () => {
        cy.visit('http://localhost:3000');

        cy.contains('Add').click();
        cy.url().should('include', '/new')
      })
  })
```

You can see we start by visiting the web address of our running app. We check that the page `contains` the 'Add' link and 'click' on the link. We then assert the new page URL.

You run your tests by adding the script below to your `package.json` and triggering it with `npm run test:cypress`

```json
"test:cypress": "cypress open"
```

You can peek inside the example folder for the syntax to do all kinds of things you do in your browser.

TODO - more examples?

**Note** if your application uses cookies, please note that Cypress will, by default, clear cookies between each test


## Assignment
1. Use the instructions above to install Cypress

1. Create tests for the following use cases in your Restaurant website:
     * (after initialising the database) test your home page has x number of restaurants
     * add a new restaurant and assert it has been added
     * delete a restaurant and assert it has been removed

1. Commit your tests into Github and share the link with your coach for review.


### Assignment extension tasks
1. Read the [Cypress documentation](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/guides/stubs-spies-and-clocks) to find out how you can use spies and stubs or modify your application's time.
1. How does Cypress differ from Selenium?

## Additional resources
[Video - Introduction to Cypress](https://docs.cypress.io/guides/getting-started/writing-your-first-test.html#Add-a-test-file) video.