# Inclusive Design and Accessibility

## Learning Objective
* Understand why accessibility is crucial to enabling everyone to access web content
* TODO


## Web accessibility
Making a product accessible means making sure it can be used by as many people as possible. At least 1 in 5 people in the UK have a long term illness, impairment or disability; many more have a temporary disability.

The Web is an essential part of every day life. Web accessibility means that people with disabilities can use the web equally. 

## Inclusive Design – The benefit of designing for all

https://99designs.co.uk/blog/tips/inclusive-design/

The whole purpose of inclusive design is to accommodate perspectives and experiences outside of your own

This can look like listening to negative reviews of customer experiences you consider to be edge cases, including diverse members of staff to work on a design, and testing a design in front of a diverse group of people. Pay attention to your competitors efforts to include as well as who they exclude. Read the writings of diverse industry thought leaders for insight into how they navigate the world and the challenges they face.

Inclusive design is a methodology that enables and draws on the full range of human diversity.

Note: Accessibility is an outcome whereas inclusive design is a process. It’s a human-centered approach to design that aims to apply to as diverse a range of people as possible. 

In practical terms, it’s an approach that caters to both permanent and temporary impairment, as well as trying to overcome language, culture, gender, age and other forms of human difference. It’s not about making good design better by throwing in additional features that make something inclusive. The best design considers the greatest number of people from the start. 

n a rudimentary level, inclusive design is a win-win for customers and businesses because it expands product reach and has the power to build empathy and spark innovation. But inclusive design is also important because a world that enables everyone is a better world. 

Beyond being the “right thing to do”, deployment of the most democratic design facilitates the involvement of disabled people in contemporary life, which contributes to the overall enrichment of society as a whole. 

If you remember back in 2018 when Microsoft redesigned some of its Xbox packaging to better suit gamers with disabilities, this was born from its own trio principles that started with recognising exclusion.

The second in Microsoft’s inclusive design principles is to solve for one, extend to many. This highlights the very real possibility that designing for someone with permanent disabilities might result in design that benefits people universally. A simple example might be a self-driving car, which enables a person who is blind to increase their mobility, but is also a more convenient option for every human.

Finally, Microsoft encourages individuals to learn from diversity and recognize that a key feature of people’s everyday lives is adaptation. As a result, designers shouldn’t design for limitations but rather for people who can adapt to different situations. 

Fortunately, rather than relying on the innovation of young designers, companies like Microsoft, but also Tommy Hilfiger, Nike and IKEA, are all coming up with inclusive design solutions. The Swedish furniture brand recently hacked its own furniture for people with disabilities in a collection dubbed “ThisAbles”, including a Friendly Zipper that attaches to bags or quilt covers making them easier to fasten or undo, and an Easy Handle that allows cupboard doors to be opened with the forearm - https://designwanted.com/design/inclusive-design/


If we only use our own abilities and biases as a starting point, we end up with products designed for ourselves based on our:
* Gender
* Age
* Language
* Technical literacy
* Physical ability
* Financial situation
* Time available

If we design for ourselves we exclude others.

In breakout rooms, think about 
* Permanent disabilities
* Temporary disabilities
* Situational disabilities

TODO - check copyright - © Microsoft 2016 Licensed under Creative Commons AttributionNonCommercial-NoDerivatives (CC BY-NC-ND)

Designing for accessibility makes sense on more than a legal level; it brings other benefits too 
* Improved Site Engine Optimation (SEO) - Google ranks accessibile sites higher
* Opportunities to reach more users on more devices, in more settings/environments
* Enhanced public image for your brand

### Example inclusively designed products
guggenheim
iphone
echo
...

can you think of others?





