# Introducing routing to our app

Most apps as they grow need to support routing. Routing in the context of frameworks is the binding of components to URLs so that when a request comes in for a URL such as `/about`, an `About` component is rendered into the view. React has an entire library dedicated to routing and we'll explore it now.

## Learning Objectives

- Learn how React routing works
- Integrate routing into your app

## How React routing works

React Router, and dynamic, client-side routing, allows us to build a single-page web application with navigation without the page refreshing as the user navigates 🤯. React Router uses component structure to call components, which display the appropriate information.

By preventing a page refresh, and using Router or Link, which is explained in more depth below, the flash of a white screen or blank page is prevented. This is one increasingly common way of having a more seamless user experience. React router also allows the user to utilize browser functionality like the back button and the refresh page while maintaining the correct view of the application.

Forget what you know about using `<a>` tags to navigate with links. Say hello to the `<Link>` component. We are going to aim to create individual pages for each product and be able to browse through the stock by moving backwards and forwards between the landing page, a product page, and back again.

## Install and set up

```
npm install react-router-dom
```

When using React router, we render components inside a `<Router>` component. Since we don't want the home page content to render on other pages, this raises the question: how do we render the current content on the home page into the router view?

One solution is to introduce a `Home` component. This component will be responsible for the main home page content and will render the three products that are currently rendered in the `App` component.

Remove the home content from `App.js` and add it into a Home component in a new file. You should end up with something like this in `Home.js`:

```javascript
import { useState } from 'react'
import data from './products.json'
import { Product } from './Product'

function Home() {
  const [cart, setCart] = useState([])

  const addToCart = product => {
    setCart([...cart, product])
  }

  return (
    <div className="App">
      {data.products.map(product => <Product key={product.productId} product={product} addToCart={addToCart} />)}
    </div>
  );
}

export default Home;
```

and this in `App.js`
_top tip_ - check everything still works before introducing routing.

```javascript
import Home from './Home'

function App() {
  return (
    <Home />
  );
}

export default App;
```

## Re-imagining our app

Now lets create some navigation and have that navigation render different views in our app. Update `App.js` to now include some navigation links and some components for other pages.

```javascript
import Home from './Home'
import { BrowserRouter as Router, Link, Switch, Route } from 'react-router-dom'

function App() {
  return (
    <Router>
      <header>
        <nav>
          <Link to="/">Home</Link>
          <Link to="/about">About</Link>
          <Link to="/contact">Contact</Link>
        </nav>
      </header>
      <Switch>
        <Route path="/">
          <Home />
        </Route>
      </Switch>
    </Router>
  );
}

export default App;
```

## Assignment - Coding challenge

### Part one

You'll notice that the new router links actually work, but no component is rendered on a click. Your coding challenge is to create two new routes for `/about` and `/contact` and two new components `About` and `Contact` that are loaded into the router view when requested.

_top tip_ the order of the components inside __Switch__ matters. Have your '/' __Home__ route be the LAST one.

### Part two

Add some basic markup/content to your About and Contact pages for stakeholder review!

## Additional resources

- [Guide to React Router](https://reactrouter.com/web/guides/quick-start)
