# Test Driven Development

## Learning Objectives

* Describe the purpose of a unit test (In the README.md of your repo)
* Implement the Test Driven Development (TDD) cycle of 'Red, Green, Refactor'

## Pre-requisites

## Lesson
What are tests? Code does things on computers for us. How do we know that our code is working the way we think it is? Surely we can just run the code and see if it is working. Isn't this just testing the code?

As the programs we write get larger and more complex, it is not always possible to test our code by just running it. For example, we may want to force a particular kind of error to ensure we are handling it correctly.

This is why we write tests. Tests ensure that our software is working as we have designed. We are trying to prevent 3 things:

* Errors
* Defects (bugs)
* Failures

Errors in JavaScript can be further divided into 7 types:

* EvalError
* InternalError
* RangeError
* ReferenceError
* SyntaxError
* TypeError
* URIError

Some of these errors can be caught and handled safely in our program. You are likely as beginners to experience many SyntaxErrors. SyntaxErrors will cause your program to fail.

With defects our code works, but not as we intended. These are often called 'bugs'. This term was coined because before the use of electronic circuits, early computer programs would sometimes malfunction due to actual insects getting into the physical valves of the computer, preventing the program from running correctly.

Failures are when our programme 'crashes' i.e. stops running and errors in a way that cannot be recovered from.

We write tests to prevent these 3 things.

### Jest
Jest is a testing framework developed at Facebook. Test Driven Development (TDD) starts with a failing test. So we write a test that we know will fail. 

```javascript
describe('person objects', () => {
    test('have a name', () => {
        expect(person.name).toEqual("test person")
    })
})
```
`person` is not defined. Let's create a person in our `person.js` file and export it.

```javascript
const person = {
    name: "test person"
}
module.exports = person
```
then we can import it into the test file by adding this line to the top of the file.
```javascript
const person = require('./person')
```
Now our tests pass!

The TDD process requires us to write tests first. The 'red, green, refactor' approach helps developers focus on three phases:

  * Red — think about <em>what</em> you want to develop
  * Green — think about <em>how</em> to make your tests pass
  * Refactor — think about <em>how</em> to improve your implementation

## Assignment
  1. Create a [new Node.js project](/curriculum#createNewProject) for this assignment.

  1. Use TDD to write tests for the family tree assignment in the [JavaScript Objects and Functions](/curriculum/Bootcamp/Unit-1-Object_Oriented_Programming/0.1.1-JavaScript_Objects_and_Functions#java) lesson. Your tests should prove that your family tree is constructed correctly. _Follow [these instructions for running your tests](/curriculum#runJestTests)._

  1. Commit your code into Github and share the link with your coach for review.
  1. Include a README.md file in your Github project that explains the purpose of a unit test.

### Assignment extension tasks
  * Include tests which make use of different Jest [expect types](https://jestjs.io/docs/expect) such as `objectContaining`, `not.objectContaining`, `toHaveProperty`
  * Research the unit test framework for another language such as Java. What similarities can you see with the Jest syntax?

## Additional resources

  * [JavaScript errors documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error).
  * [Using Visual Studio Code, npm and Jest](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EIQgVdoYb0M) (from minute 5:30 onwards). 

