# Objects in an Airport Domain

## Learning Objectives
* Recognise how classes are represented in code
* Locate particular properties in a deeply nested set of objects
* Create and execute a suite of unit tests

## Pre-requisites
* Familiarity with [Test Driven Development](/curriculum/Bootcamp/Unit-1-Object_Oriented_Programming/0.1.2-Test_Driven_Development)
* Familiarity with [JavaScript Objects and Functions](/curriculum/Bootcamp/Unit-1-Object_Oriented_Programming/0.1.1-JavaScript_Objects_And_Functions)

## Lesson
In this lesson are going to implement our Airport system. This exercise is designed to introduce you to the idea of Object Oriented Programming (OOP). Objected-Oriented Programming languages such languages include C++, Java, TypeScript, Python and Scala use objects as the fundamental unit of coding. JavaScript is not a pure Object-Oriented Programming language however it does have support for classes.

### Objects and Classes
Our Airport system has following classes in it:

TODO - add class diagram that also supports the assignment

In JavaScript you can create classes and use the `new` keyword to instantiate instances of your class. 

```javascript
class Bag {
    
    constructor(weight) {
        this.weight = weight
    }
}

const bag = new Bag(16)
console.log(bag.weight) // 16
```
In the code example above we declare a class using the `class` keyword. The name of the class should be capitalised and singular. 

After the class name comes the block that contains the class definition. When we create a new Bag we want it to have a weight, hence we declare a 'constructor' function which will be called with zero or more arguments when we use the `new` keyword. 

Can you see how we add a property `weight` to the `this` object? `this` refers to the instance of the class that we just created.

### TDD for Bags

How would you write a unit test for this Bag class?

If we try to create a Bag without a weight - the constructor should throw an Error. This protects our program from trying to do calculations on `bag.weight` and reading `undefined` as the value. 

Why might the weight be undefined?

Our failing test will include this assertion:
```javascript
expect(() => new Bag()).toThrowError('bag must have a weight')
```

Notice how we have to run a function inside `expect` to trigger the error and catch it. If we just wrote the following:

```javascript
expect(new Bag()).toThrowError('bag must have a weight')
```

it would be like calling expect with `Error` and then expecting the Error to throw (which it won't, it's too late, the trap has been sprung). We'll need to update our Bag class to throw an Error if no weight is passed into the constructor. We throw an Error using this syntax:

```javascript
throw new Error('some error message in here')
```

Can you spot the `new` keyword above? What do you think that is doing in the Error class definition?

### Bags belong to a Passenger

Let's now focus on the Passenger class.

TODO - add class diagram

People often fly with a more than one Bag. Our Passengers should be able to carry multiple Bags. What data structure would work well here?

To add a Bag to a Passenger we should be able to call a function on the instance of a Passenger. Read the code below:

```javascript
const bob = new Passenger('Bob the Builder', "Passport123", "1A")
const bobsCabinBag = new Bag(9)
const bobsHullBag = new Bag(23)
bob.addBag(bobsCabinBag)
bob.addBag(bobsHullBag)
console.log(bob.bags) // [ Bag { weight: 9 }, Bag { weight: 23 } ]
```
The way to define a function on a class is like this:
```javascript
class Passenger {
    constructor(name, passportNumber, seatNumber) {
        this.name = name
        this.passportNumber = passportNumber
        this.seatNumber = seatNumber
        this.bags = []
    }

    addBag(bag) {
        this.bags.push(bag)
    }
}

module.exports = Passenger
```

## Assignment
  1. Create a [new Node.js project](/curriculum#createNewProject) for this assignment.

  1. Use TDD to create unit tests for the Bag and Passenger classes. These tests will fail initially as the classes won't exist. _Follow [these instructions for running your tests](/curriculum#runJestTests)._

  1. Implement the Bag and Passenger classes. Make sure the unit tests pass.

  1. Now we have Passengers with Bags, they are ready to board their flight! Use TDD to create unit tests for the Plane and Airport classes. Include tests for:
     * reading the weight of a Bag belonging to a specific Passenger on a specific Plane at a specific Airport
     * landing Planes at Airports _i.e airport.land(plane)_
     * boarding Passengers onto a Plane

  1. Commit your code into Github and share the link with your coach for review

## Assignment extension task
  1. Take a copy of your solution and covert it to use TypeScript. What differences do you notice? Note that the TypeScript files must use `export = NameOfClass;` rather than `module.exports`. 
  1. Document your classes using the [JSDoc](https://jsdoc.app/) comment structure and generate the HTML documentation. Why do you think this documentation could be useful?
  1. Commit your Typescript solution and generated HTML to your Git repository.
