# UML

## Learning Objectives

- Students will know that UML diagrams are an industry standard for visually representing the blueprints of a software system

- Students will understand the purpose and syntax of 3 specific UML diagram types, Use Case, Class and Sequence diagrams

## Pre-requisites

- Installation of the PlantUML VSCode extension
- An understanding of object-oriented programming

## Lesson

### A litte history

In the 1970s and 80s, Structured Analysis and Design techniques were used to design software. Later, Object-Oriented Anaylsis and Design (OOAD) came about to design Object-oriented (OO) programs. Several techniques emerged but like many computing developments over the years, not having one single standard caused problems. In 1997, a company called Rational Software submitted a proposal titled UML 1.0 to the Object Management Group (yep, abbreviated as OMG). The OMG later took the proposal, added some other elements and went on to standardise UML 1.1 in the same year.

> _"UML is just boxes and lines"_ - Anonymous

### Common roles that consume UML diagrams

Communicating concepts and ideas in systems development is hard. The UML standard helps to transcend programming languages and different communication techniques. This comes into sharp focus when you consider the different types of role that may come into contact with the software designs:

- Software Architects (normally create the diagrams)
- Project Managers/Owners
- Business Analysts
- Developers
- Testing/QA team

### Structural modelling vs Behavioural modelling

Structural modelling is how the physical elements of the system fit together. They are the static parts, or the nouns involved in the system. Structural diagrams include:

- Class
- Component
- Package
- Deployment

Behavioural modelling describes the processes and interactions in the system. Whereas structured modelling focuses on the nouns in the system, behavioural modelling focuses on the verbs in the system. Behavioural diagrams include:

- Use case
- Activity
- Sequence
- State

### Designing a mapping application

Let's take the example above and develop it further by designing a (very) simple system. The requirements for our system, written as user stories, are as follows:

As a user, I need to:

- Search for a business, so that I can see its location on a map
- Click on the map pin, so that I can see more information about the company
- Click the cross icon, so that I can close the dialogue

#### Use case diagram

A use case diagram illustrates the main functions of the system and the different kinds of users that will interact with it.

<iframe frameborder="0" style="width:100%;height:443px;" src="https://viewer.diagrams.net/?highlight=0000ff&edit=_blank&layers=1&nav=1&title=usecase_map.drawio#RzVfLbuMgFP2aLDvyIw932SZtZ9FK1WSkeeyIubVRMFgYJ%2FF8%2FVzH2LGN0zZVH1kZDvgC51wOMPLnye5OkTR%2BkBT4yHPobuQvRp7n%2BtMZfkqkqJCZP66ASDFqOh2AJfsHBnQMmjMKWaejlpJrlnbBUAoBoe5gRCm57XZ7krw7akoisIBlSLiN%2FmJUxxUaTJwD%2Fh1YFNcju45pSUjd2QBZTKjctiD%2FZuTPlZS6KiW7OfCSvJqX6r%2FbI63NxBQI%2FZofFhfF%2BhbuxWyy%2BDn9m8abeC0vTJQN4blZ8DzPtExAmUnromYC55%2BWxTzhV6GWauRfb0BphlzdkxXwR5kxzaTALiupMUarwxVnUdmgZYporBOOFReLMtecCZg36jkI2iurp4nhYNeCzErvAGesVYFd6tZaIJN2XmDq24OIvoHiln5TgxGTNlET%2BcAsFgy5JxA9sYheAlFhjNiqnLcgCViUY1zMc6xcb2OmYZmSsGzZ4lbr0vgOjPk9xlzfZsz1BigLPoqyqUWZTZCgV%2BUmx5qQArqkIBeq%2BF3m1DfnMqiBP3sgQBsywGJn0q6qFe3aIyiGi8Hd8EJmaqIi0C%2FrD7RjN7YaLbYnA2TXmAJONNt0TWpIATPCo2Q440bsxl7726MOkclchWD%2BaptKL1A%2Fa5rAdaCKGCvQPiGaZb89R2a2f3EWrvf%2Bm5ZSMXFWu2rIhz53VwUDjElko2aMMsJllJ%2BXGY2%2F3Ixc%2B6Q8zY3ebh3BWVtHI9XJ1jE9ovEnWYfrfZmis%2FNW1J2%2BUdFxP9DnKuq9QtFsyxJO9lJmOB1tXhzvdO30%2Bpco1%2FYt3xmQcuw9Y1xmuB94QyYi4nDaeEOZM%2B6NRjjecQTRgBdyQbMPEce%2Bzj3sD5xsfw9mIirLRaYhsURD9nV372VayTU%2BG3j5Dqn35hPjvAcR8%2FDg8KQH3iMJo5QfO9JUyQXQj8uOy4FDbTag1nO5ceRQw%2BrhZVlJeHif%2Bzf%2FAQ%3D%3D"></iframe>

- An actor is depicted by a stick figure and contains a label with its role (actors are placed outside the system)

- A use case in an ellipse represents one of the main functions of the system and is labelled with a verb/noun phrase

- A line drawn from the actor to the use case represents an _association_ and links the actor with the use case

- A system boundary drawn around the use cases represents the scope if the system

We can model the requirements above in a use case diagram like so:

> In the SDLC, Use Case analysis will occur in the Analysis phase. Diagrams such as the one above are visual representations of this analysis.

#### Activity diagram

An activity diagram depicts all the things that a user has to do to work through a requirement, set of requirements, user story or set of user stories. Let's take our user stories and build out an activity diagram.

<iframe frameborder="0" style="width:100%;height:583px;" src="https://viewer.diagrams.net/?highlight=0000ff&edit=_blank&layers=1&nav=1&title=activity_diagram.drawio#R5Vlde9smFP41vqwfSejDuUydrlv7dNuzrFtzSSVssWChIVzb%2B%2FUDCSQByqy4iu21uXDEAR3gPe%2F5AM3AcrN%2Fy2CZf6AZIrPAy%2FYzcDcLgiSMxK8UHBpB6CeNYM1w1oj8TnCP%2F0FK6CnpFmeoMgZySgnHpSlMaVGglBsyyBjdmcNWlJizlnCNHMF9Cokr%2FRNnPFdSP77pOn5EeJ2rqRdB3HR8hunjmtFtoeabBWBV%2FzXdG6h1qY1WOczoricCb2ZgySjlzdNmv0REQqtha9774Ynedt0MFXzMC8Xyrz8%2BgXcffwn44uGnD%2BXv7%2F3tq1gt7gskWwXIPYIszeUGD%2BKngBskdBKaQo5pobbCDxq%2BGgAkp%2FBn4PUuxxzdlzCVvTvBFyHL%2BYaobjUXYhztn9yF32IjKIfoBnEmF6JeCBLFt4OmkdrBrmc8DXnes5veKVR8WbeqO8zEg4LtORD6DoQOSqjIbiVXRSslsKpwagKD9ph%2FEs%2FePFKth17Pndy7pxsH3SjE6nsvyeZDv697rW7p95rFocxxC8sEwg8hWyN%2BlD2urXq2iAZMoWUMEUGqL%2BY6huyjZviVYrHClgoAmFQILQtXdMtSpF7qO4alJ9QUOlj00YoaHBxFNVvaXX8FgYLjBGI53XzeVmdxMRD488CEtg1iPcsGyTxybWsbYTo3CwdQiomY9vWK1ubs4Ir%2F3lLd8aqqU86tGOB75b7rFE9r%2Bf9nWlOx2hJeaY1ihY3SZohjDgEuN3GvOKOPaEkJZUJS0ALJ%2BTEhlggSvC5Ek6CV1CANhUUyulXiDc4yOcmgmbtY601k6cRkfpuUe2YOBxzYdpDpjHzzrFiqMHXofzy4XSpmhaGF%2BMlBy1Lkg%2FMGreR5Wc%2B1lE55fi%2FhdelvOOWNT10NjEeD7sVSV2TRwK5OTqWBw6eXpsGI3HW0%2BNGFjG%2BUMV1V860XMkd9eSwbIkvRzZnJEE9AhqushI%2BHE28s0y4bdxZWuPBOZJpde7eVwxGqCdvDQ29YKQdU%2F7Fgax7%2FxjjkiodG47Q8ThweLwlOH%2BtTfSkZgq%2FvIAwGSvTzHoSTxWXcf%2FKqYIQbNxS5FjcGJ1eRwIoH584Yz6v3r5Ey18WE8NRC0rlMOXMhqfdhxFxaoauOuS1IF4u5i5e6FflNX4h4q%2FqK%2Bzu7GLGPVYlr6LNejCyiCQJlWyZf7Jy1WFw0WIJwHseGYaPTC2BXl%2B3lLx0yxxy3CMFl9ZTf9MgBq7L5urbCe%2BlJhovOAuDVf1NdMAdzq6yPHPcKBi6XtWx693Ir%2Fv8LlCaQ0UCgGkpILxeoxhwCJkFS5Y0MMzFGfpoEd8J55aanAdbMAFHsUhQMAGtf3YwAVjS7r8BNcOi%2BtIM3%2FwI%3D"></iframe>

- A filled dot represents the beginning of an activity
- A filled dot with a border represents the end of the actvity
- An action is represented as a rectangle with a label inside
- A triangle represents a decision junction

### Class diagrams

- Probably the most common diagram
- Identifies vocab of the system (common language of the team)
- Classes represent nouns
- Describes relationships between the nouns

## Additional resources
