# Static functions and properties

## Learning Objectives
* Understand the meaning of the `static` keyword when applied to properties and functions/methods
* Implement properties and functions/methods which belong to the class rather than a specific instance of the class

## Lesson

### The static keyword
The `static` keyword can be applied to a function/method or a property of a class. 

A static function/method does not use any instance specific values, instead it executes logic on the data passed in as function/method arguments. Static functions/methods are often 'utility' functions, for example finding the maximum of 2 numbers. We call a static function/method using the name of the class, for example:

```javascript
Math.max(1, 2);
```

Static properties belong to the class as a whole rather than one specific instance. We often use static properites to hold constant values, for example, the value of PI.

|Javascript|TypeScript|Java|
```javascript
static const PI = 3.14
```
```typescript
private static PI:number = 3.14
```
```java
private static final double PI = 3.14;
```
|Javascript|TypeScript|Java|

### Static functions in the Airport domain

Imagine we have an air traffic control system to keep track of all the planes using 2 runways. We have a rule that only a certain number of planes can be on either of the 2 runways at a time, otherwise our air traffic controllers will get overloaded!

We'll create 2 instance of a `Runway` class - one for the landing planes and one for departing planes. We'll add a static property to hold a constant representing the maximum number of planes allowed on the runway plus a static property holding a list of all the planes currently on either of the runways (note this code is not thread safe, it is shown for example purposes only). We'll then add a static function/method to add a plane to the runway.

|Javascript|TypeScript|Java|
```javascript
class Runway {
    static MAX_PLANES_ALLOWED_ON_ALL_RUNWAYS = 100;
    static planes = [];

    name;

    constructor(name) {
        this.name = name
    }
    
    add(plane) {

        if (Runway.planes.length>Runway.MAX_PLANES_ALLOWED_ON_ALL_RUNWAYS) {
            throw new Error ("runways at full capacity!")
        }
        Runway.planes.push(plane)
    }
}
```
```typescript
TODO
```
```java
public class Runway {
    private static final int MAX_PLANES_ALLOWED_ON_ALL_RUNWAYS = 100;

    private String name;
    private static List<Plane> planes = new ArrayList<Plane>();

    public Runway(String name) {
        this.name = name;
    }

    public void add(Plane plane) throws Exception {

        if (this.planes.size()>Runway.MAX_PLANES_ALLOWED_ON_ALL_RUNWAYS) {
            throw new Exception ("runways at full capacity!");
        }
        this.planes.add(plane);
    }
}
```
|Javascript|TypeScript|Java|

## Assignment

* Modify your Bag class to add a static property to hold the maximum weight of a bag (23kg). Write code to throw an exception if a bag is constructed with a weight greater than this maximum. Add tests to validate your logic.
* Implement the Runway class as above and add the ability to remove planes from the runway
* Implement a way to "fly" a Plane object from one Airport to another.
* Add tests to cover all new functionality
* Commit your code into Github and share the link with your coach for review.

## Assignment extensions tasks
Research OO languages which use static classes - what does the static keyword mean when applied to a class?

## Additional resources
  * [Introduction to JavaScript Classes](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_classes.asp)
  * [JavaScript Class Reference](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_classes.asp)
  * [Using test coverage with Jest](https://egghead.io/lessons/javascript-track-project-code-coverage-with-jest)