# Scooter Hire System

## Learning Objectives
Demonstrate what you have learnt in this Unit by creating classes and unit tests for a new domain. 

## Pre-requisites
Familiar with all the topics in this Unit.

## Lesson
You have been asked to create a Scooter Hire system. Electric scooters need to be charged at scooter charging stations. Users can only hire and unplug a scooter if the battery is fully charged. Users always use up the battery charge, so when a scooter is returned to a charging station, you can expect the battery to be empty. It takes about 2000 milliseconds to charge a scooter (you have to wait, it's async).

To charge a scooter you can make use of the `setTimeout` call. One way to wait for a timer to complete is as follows:
```js
    async charge() {
        console.log('Starting charge'); 

        await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, 2000)); // wait 2 seconds

        console.log('Charge complete');   // after 2 seconds this line will print
    }
```

This code uses the `async` `await` method of handling callbacks, introduced in ES6. `await` only works with Promises and makes JavaScript wait until a promise settles. In the code above, we wrap the 2 second timer in a Promise, i.e. we say 'when the timer completes either successfully or with an error, promise me you will return'. The `await` keyword pauses execution of the function (in this case *charge()*) until the promise is settled. So, in the code above, the 'Charge complete' text is only logged after 2 seconds.

Note that `await` only pauses execution of the function it is in. This means that any calling functions also need to `await` hence the Jest test for the code above will look like this:
```js
    test('charge', async () => {
        const scooter = new Scooter();
        await scooter.charge(); // we need to wait for the charge!
        console.log("Test complete");
    })
```

## Assignment
  1. Create a [new Node.js project](/curriculum/Bootcamp/FAQ#createNewProject) for this assignment.

  1. Implement the Scooter Hire system described above. You will need to create the following:

      * A `/src` directory containing classes with interactions (methods calls) that capture the required functionality
      * A `/tests` directory containing unit tests (including async tests for the charging functionality) which test all scenarios
      * A screenshot of your [unit test coverage report](/curriculum/Bootcamp/FAQ#generateCoverage) (aim for 100% coverage)

  1. Commit your code into Github and share the link with your coach for review.

### Assignment extension tasks
Add JSDoc to all classes and commit the generated HTML documentation to GitHub.

## Additional resources
